---
title: Preliminaries and Fundamentals
author: usmanhnf
date: 2023-03-22
layout: post
---




Fundamental Definitions
-------------
This chapter gives a brief overview of the basic concepts to set the course for studying Mechanics of Solids course. We start by refreshing our minds with some fundamental definitions.

### Mechanics
Mechanics is the study of the behavior of bodies subject to forces and displacements (and, to some extent, heating and cooling). Solid Mechanics (or Mechanics of Solids) deals specifically with “solid bodies”. 

### Body
For the purpose of Mechanics, a body is a portion of matter that, at a given moment in time, occupies a certain region in space. For example, A car on the road, a rocket in the space, a bridge supported on the edges.

### Particle
If the region occupied by the body can be idealized as being of negligible extent (and thus reducible to a point), the body is called a particle.

#### DEF

##### GHI

long contents .....

+ 1
+ 2
+ 3
+ 4








GitBook is an amazing frontend style to present and organize contents (such as book chapterssdasda
and blogs) on Web. The typical to deploy GitBook at [Github Pages][1]
is building HTML files locally and then push to Github repository, usually to the `gh-pages`
branch. However, it's quite annoying to repeat such workload and make it hard for people do
version control via git for when there are generated HTML files to be staged in and out.

This theme takes style definition out of generated GitBook site and provided the template
for Jekyll to rendering markdown documents to HTML, thus the whole site can be deployed
to [Github Pages][1] without generating and uploading HTML bundle every time when there are
changes to the original repository.

[1]: https://pages.github.com